---
layout: post
howtos: true
published: true
title: Use Cases
permalink: howtos/use-cases
description: Learn everything about Flyve MDM plugin
---
## Index

* [Enrollment process](#enrollment-process)
* [Files and applications download](#files-download)
* [Agent online status](#agent-online-status)
* [Update user](#update-user)
* [Agent deletion](#agent-deletion)

## Enrollment process

### Enrollment requests

The guest user enrolls himself using a deeplink sent by email. They both contain the same useful data to build several HTTP requests.

The user token is a token to authenticate against the REST API. When an administrator invites someone to enroll his devices, an account is created. The login is the email address provided by the administrator. The user API token is unique among all user accounts. Using it alone is sufficient to get a session, as described in GLPI documentation.

The invitation token is a hash with limited lifetime to identify the invitation being used at enrollment time.

After the enollment the agent must connect to the MQTT broker. The serial of the device and the password sent by the backend in the enrollment process are the credentials.

### Content in the deeplink

The deeplink contains some base64 encoded semicolon separated fields like a CSV format:

* the URL of the backend for REST API requests
* an user API token belonging to a human user account
* an invitation token
* the name of the company's helpdesk
* the phone number of the company's helpdesk
* the website of the company's helpdesk
* the email of the company's helpdesk

All fields related to the helpdesk may be not populated by the administrators. The fields are ordered.

The URL of the backend is the base for requests built by the client, which must be suffixed by the endpoint to reach. See the [GLPI documentation](https://github.com/glpi-project/glpi/blob/master/apirest.md) to know more about the rest API of GLPI.

```
http://api.domain.com/aHR0cDovL2FwaS5kb21haW4uY29tLzs0NWVyamJ1ZGtscTU4NjVzZGtqaGprcztsa2hqZmtnc2RmNTQ2NjM0cztjb21wYW55J3MgaGVscGRlc2s7MDMzMTIzNDU2Nzg5O2h0dHBzOi8vc3VwcG9ydC5jb21wYW55LmNvbTtzdXBwb3J0QGNvbXBhbnkuY29t
```

### Obtaining a session token

The agent must first acquire a session token issuing a request like this:

```
GET http://api.domain.com/initSession?user_token=45erjbudklq5865sdkjhjks
Content-Type: application/json
```

Note: **the header is required**

Answer:

```json
200 OK
{
   "session_token": "83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62"
}
```

### Check the current profile

GLPI requires users have at least one profile to allow them to login. When users have several profiles, they need to send a request to switch between them. This may happen if an user enrolls his own device.

To ensure the device always use the guest profile of the user, the device must run this request

```http
GET http://api.domain.com/getFullSession?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Content-Type: application/json
```

Note: **the header is required**

Answer (truncated):

```json
200 OK
{
  "glpi_plugins": {
    "1": "flyvemdm",
    "2": "fusioninventory"
  },

  "snip": "many content here, not shown",

  "glpiactiveprofile": {
    "id": 9,
    "name": "Flyve MDM guest users",
  },

  "snip": "many content here, not shown",

  "plugin_flyvemdm_guest_profiles_id": 9
}
```

Many data are returned. The agent must read inside glpiactiveprofile the value **id**. This is the ID of the current profile. If it differs from the value of **plugin_flyvemdm_guest_profiles_id** then the device needs to change its profile. If they match, the device may skip the next request.

#### Switch to guest profile

```
POST http://api.domain.com/changeActiveProfile?profiles_id=9&session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Content-Type: application/json
```

Note: **the header is required**

Note the value **profiles_id** in the query string. The value must match **plugin_flyvemdm_guest_profiles_id** found in the previous request

#### Answer if the request fails

<br>

<table>
  <tr>
    <td style="width:150px">HTTP status</td>
    <td style="width:150px">Error message</td>
    <td>Cause</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>Bad Request</td>
    <td>The request is probably malformed.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>404</td>
    <td>Item not found</td>
    <td>The requested profile is not available or does not exists.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

In both cases, the enrollment cannot continue.

#### Answer if the request succeeds

```
200 OK
```

### Instanciation of the agent
After a session token is acquired, the agent must create itself in the backend. It must send its serial number or its UUID. Sending both is recommended to avoid inventory problems.

```
POST http://api.domain.com/PluginFlyvemdmAgent?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Content-Type: application/json
```

Payload

```json
{"input":
  {
    "_email": "emailaddress@domain.com",
    "_invitation_token": "lkhjfkgsdf546634s",
    "_serial": "0123456ATDJ-045",
    "_uuid": "49D53434-0200-9D08-9000-01DEA9028055",
    "csr": "",
    "firstname": "my first name",
    "lastname": "my lastname",
    "version": "0.99.0",
    "type": "android"
  }
}
```

* _email: email address of the invited user
* _invitation_token: invitation token found in  the invitation message
* _serial: serial number of the device (serial or uuid required, both is better)
* _uuid: UUID of the device (serial or uuid required, both is better)
* csr: certificate signing request (not implemented yet)
* firstname: first name of the user (optional)
* lastname: last name of the user (optional)
* version: version of the MDM agent
* type: type of MDM used (must be one of the MDM types supported by the backend)

Note: csr is a certificate signing request: not fully implemented for now.

#### Answer if the request fails

If the enrollment fails, a JSON array is returned

```json
400 Bad Request
[
  "ERROR_GLPI_ADD",
  "wrong email address"
]
```

The first string is a software error code.
The second string is an error message displayable to the user.

If the request fails, the enrollment cannot continue.

#### Answer if the request succeeds

```json
200 OK
{
  "id": "17"
}
```

id is the ID of the agent in the database. It is needed for the next request.

### Get agent's initial settings (only if enrollment succeeded)

```
GET http://api.domain.com/PluginFlyvemdmAgent/17?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Content-Type: application/json
```

#### Answer if the request succeeds

```json
200 OK
{
  "id": 65,
  "name": "user5@teclib.com",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "computers_id": 65,
  "wipe": 0,
  "lock": 0,
  "enroll_status": "enrolled",
  "entities_id": 76,
  "plugin_flyvemdm_fleets_id": 103,
  "last_report": null,
  "last_contact": null,
  "certificate": "",
  "topic": "/76/agent/AZERTY",
  "mqttpasswd": "YTQUJagG7iBas45thrbwDxtzaQxZIhp4g",
  "api_token": "2qanibb1aoi16d7edqm6wcl14y6f3c24vtjupk4r"
  "broker": "demo.flyve.org",
  "port": 8883,
  "tls": 1,
  "android_bugcollecctor_url": "",
  "android_bugcollector_login": "",
  "android_bugcollector_passwd": "",
  "links": [
    {
      "rel": "Computer",
      "href": "https://demo.flyve.org/glpi/apirest.php/Computer/65"
    },
    {
      "rel": "Entity",
      "href": "https://demo.flyve.org/glpi/apirest.php/Entity/76"
    },
    {
      "rel": "PluginFlyvemdmFleet",
      "href": "https://demo.flyve.org/glpi/apirest.php/PluginFlyvemdmFleet/103"
    }
  ]
}
```
Note: the property certificate in the JSON payload is the certificate delivered to the agent if the client certificate feature is enabled.

**api_token**: to consume API from GLPI. Used to downlaod files and applications from HTTP(S).
**mqttpasswd**: password to access MQTT. Login is the serial of the device.

The api_token delivered by this request replaces the user_token used in the first request **initSession**. The agent must forget the user_token and save for later use the api_token received from this request.

### Logout after enrollment

```
GET http://api.domain.com/killSession?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Content-Type: application/json
```

The answer should contain an empty body.

#### Answer if the request succeeds

```
200 OK
```
#### Answer if the request fails

```
400 Bad Request
```

## Files Download

### Prerequisites

The device needs to be logged with a user account. Refer to [enrollment](#enrollment-process) to know how to log in.

### Download a file

```
GET http://api.domain.com/PluginFlyvemdmFile/1?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/json
range: bytes=0-
```
The headers **Accept** and **Content-Type** are mandatory.
The header **Range** is optional and allows to download a range of bytes.

The body of the answer is the file or a part of the file, depending on the usage of the **Range** header.

### Download an application

```
GET http://api.domain.com/PluginFlyvemdmPackage/1?session_token=83af7e620c83a50a18d3eac2f6ed05a3ca0bea62
Accept: application/octet-stream
Content-Type: application/json
range: bytes=0-
```
The headers **Accept** and **Content-Type** are mandatory.
The header **Range** is optional and allows to download a range of bytes. 

The body of the answer is the file or a part of the file, depending on the usage of the **Range** header.

### Using ranges

In a nutshell:
* bytes=0- means bytes [0; +infinite[ (in other words: the whole file)
* bytes=10-100 means bytes  [10; 100]
* bytes=-100 means bytes [0; 100] It is similar to bytes=0-100

### Answered headers

* Accept-Ranges: bytes
* Access-Control-Expose-Headers: content-type, content-range, accept-range
* Cache-Control: private, must-revalidate
* Connection: keep-alive
* Content-Length: 504750
* Content-Range: bytes 0-504750/504750
* Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
* Content-Type: application/octet-stream
* Content-disposition: attachment; filename="b_1_q_0_p_0.jpg"
* Date: Fri, 02 Sep 2016 14:15:23 GMT
* Expires: Mon, 26 Nov 1962 00:00:00 GMT
* Last-Modified: Fri, 02 Sep 2016 13:57:41 +0200

## Agent Online Status

FlyveMDM takes benefit from the will and testament concept of MQTT protocol. When a client connects to the broker it can send a message to the broker. When the client goes offline, the broker sends the message on behalf of the disconnected client.

### Online status

The online status relies on will and testament feature of MQTT. When a device goes online, it must send 

Sub topic ```/Status/Online```
```json
{"online": "true"}
```

When the device connects it must set a will and testmament message which will fire to the backend from the Broker on behalf of  the agent.

Sub topic ```/Status/Online```
```json
{"online": "false"}
```

This way, when the Broker detects loss of connectivity with an agent, it will inform the backend that the devices are gone offline.

## Update user

This works only when a user has UPDATE right on users. a guest profile cannot update himself from the API currently (see https://github.com/glpi-project/glpi/issues/2568)

The agent may update user informations like phone number, emails, name.

This can be done with the endpoint ```User```. Only fields requiring an update should be specified. 

PUT apirest.php/User/:id

```json
{
    "input": {
        "firstname": "new firstname",
        "realname": "new realname",
        "phone": "0123456789",
        "phone2": "0987654321",
        "_useremails": { 
            "0": "email1@example.com",
            "1": "email2@example.com"
        },
        "_default_email": "1",
    }
}
```

## Agent deletion

There are two cases where an agent must be deleted from the database:
- after succesful enrollment
- after explicit deletion by an administrator

### Unenrollment

When an administrator unenrolls an agent, a MQTT message is sent to the device running this agent to process unenrollment. Once the unenrollment is done, the agent sends a MQTT message to acknowledge the unenrollment request.

The backend waits for this acknowledgment to actually delete the agent from the database. The delay to send this acknowledgment is undertermined but should happen because the device is in the end of a cycle but still owned by legitimate user and is used in normal operations.

### Forced deletion

When an enrolled device is lost or stolen, and it appears impossible to retrieve it, the administrator may want to delete its data from the database. In such case we cannot unenroll th device as it is very likely offline forever. We need to delete the agent and maybe the associated computer by force.

To do this the administrator deletes the agent fron his user interface. Next he is free to delete or keep the associated computer. This means that deleting the agent does cascade a computer deletion. This is an extra and manual action taken by the administrator.
